packages/docs/docs/quickstart/installation-and-setup.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_position: 1
slug: /installation-and-setup
---

import AnimationPlayer from '@site/src/components/AnimationPlayer';
import CodeBlock from '@theme/CodeBlock';
import source from '!!raw-loader!@revideo/examples/src/scenes/quickstart';

# Installation and Setup

Let's install revideo with a sample project. To use revideo, make sure that you
have [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/) version 16 or greater.

### Creating a new project

Run the following command to create a new revideo project (If this fails, check
out the [troubleshooting](#troubleshooting) section):

```bash
npm init @revideo@latest
```

After agreeing to install the `@revideo/create` package and choosing a project
path (`<project-path>`), navigate to your project and install all dependencies:

```shell
cd <project-path>
npm install
```

To preview your video in the editor, run:

```shell
 npm start
```

The editor can now be accessed by visiting
[http://localhost:9000/](http://localhost:9000/). Here you should see the video
shown below. On the [next page](/basic-example), we're going to take a look at
the code of this example.

<video width="708" height="400" controls>
  <source
    src="https://revideo-example-assets.s3.amazonaws.com/revideo-example.mp4"
    type="video/mp4"
  />
  Your browser does not support the video tag.
</video>

```tsx
import {Audio, Img, Video, makeScene2D} from '@revideo/2d';
import {all, chain, createRef, waitFor} from '@revideo/core';

export default makeScene2D(function* (view) {
  const logoRef = createRef<Img>();

  yield view.add(
    <>
      <Video
        src={'https://revideo-example-assets.s3.amazonaws.com/stars.mp4'}
        play={true}
        size={['100%', '100%']}
      />
      <Audio
        src={'https://revideo-example-assets.s3.amazonaws.com/chill-beat.mp3'}
        play={true}
        time={17.0}
      />
    </>,
  );

  yield* waitFor(1);

  view.add(
    <Img
      width={'1%'}
      ref={logoRef}
      src={
        'https://revideo-example-assets.s3.amazonaws.com/revideo-logo-white.png'
      }
    />,
  );

  yield* chain(
    all(logoRef().scale(40, 2), logoRef().rotation(360, 2)),
    logoRef().scale(60, 1),
  );
});
```

<!---

Now save the file. Any changes you make are automatically picked up and
reflected in the preview.

You should see a red circle in the preview pane at the top right of the web
application. Press the play button to see the circle animate across the screen.

### Explanation

Each video in Motion Canvas is represented by a project configuration object. In
our example, this configuration is declared in `src/project.ts`:

```ts title="src/project.ts"
import {makeProject} from '@revideo/core';

import example from './scenes/example?scene';

export default makeProject({
  scenes: [example],
});
```

When creating a project, we need to provide it with an array of scenes to
display. In this case, we use only one scene imported from
`src/scenes/example.tsx`.

A scene is a set of elements displayed on the screen and an animation that
governs them. The most basic scene looks as follows:

```tsx
import {makeScene2D} from '@revideo/2d';

export default makeScene2D(function* (view) {
  // animation
});
```

`makeScene2D()` takes a function generator and turns it into a scene which we
then import in our project file. The function generator describes the flow of
the animation, while the provided `view` argument is used to add elements to the
scene.

You can learn more about scenes, nodes, and this XML-like syntax in the
[scene hierarchy](/hierarchy) section. For now, what's important is that,
in our example, we add an individual [`<Circle/>`](/api/2d/components/Circle)
node to our scene. We make it red, set its width and height as `140` pixels and
position it `300` pixels left from the center:

```tsx
view.add(
  <Circle
    // highlight-start
    ref={myCircle}
    x={-300}
    width={140}
    height={140}
    fill="#e13238"
  />,
);
```

To animate our circle we first need to
[grab a reference to it](/references). That's the purpose of the
[`createRef`](/api/core/utils#createRef) function. We use it to create a
reference and pass it to our circle using the
[`ref`](/api/2d/components/NodeProps#ref) attribute:

```tsx
// highlight-next-line
const myCircle = createRef<Circle>();

view.add(
  <Circle
    // highlight-next-line
    ref={myCircle}
    x={-300}
    width={140}
    height={140}
    fill="#e13238"
  />,
);
```

We then access the circle through `myCircle()` and animate its properties:

```tsx
yield *
  all(
    myCircle().fill('#e6a700', 1).to('#e13238', 1),
    myCircle().position.x(300, 1).to(-300, 1),
  );
```

This snippet may seem a bit confusing so let's break it down.

Each property of a node can be read and updated throughout the animation. For
example, in the circle above we defined its `fill` property as `'#e13238'`:

```tsx
<Circle
  ref={myCircle}
  x={-300}
  width={140}
  height={140}
  // highlight-next-line
  fill="#e13238"
/>
```

Using our reference we can now retrieve this property's value:

```ts
const fill = myCircle().fill(); // '#e13238'
```

We can also update it by passing the new value as the first argument:

```ts
myCircle().fill('#e6a700');
```

This will immediately update the color of our circle. If we want to transition
to a new value over some time, we can pass the transition duration (in seconds)
as the second argument:

```ts
myCircle().fill('#e6a700', 1);
```

This [creates a tween animation](/tweening) that smoothly changes the fill
color over one second.

Animations in Motion Canvas don't play on their own, we need to explicitly tell
them to. This is why scenes are declared using generator functions - they serve
as a description of how the animation should play out. By yielding different
instructions we can tell the scene animation to do different things.

For example, to play the tween we created, we can do:

```ts
yield * myCircle().fill('#e6a700', 1);
```

This will pause the generator, play out the animation we yielded, and then
continue.

To play another animation, right after the first one, we can simply write
another `yield*` statement:

```ts
yield * myCircle().fill('#e6a700', 1);
yield * myCircle().fill('#e13238', 1);
```

But since we're animating the same property, we can write it in a more compact
way:

```ts
yield * myCircle().fill('#e6a700', 1).to('#e13238', 1);
```

In our example, aside from changing the color, we also move our circle around.
We can try doing it the same way we animated the color:

```ts
yield * myCircle().fill('#e6a700', 1).to('#e13238', 1);
yield * myCircle().position.x(300, 1).to(-300, 1);
```

This works, but the position will start animating **after** the fill color. To
make them happen at the same time, we use the [`all`][all] function:

```ts
yield *
  all(
    myCircle().fill('#e6a700', 1).to('#e13238', 1),
    myCircle().position.x(300, 1).to(-300, 1),
  );
```

[`all`][all] takes one or more animations and merges them together. Now they'll
happen at the same time. The [animation flow](/flow) section goes into more
depth about generators and flow functions such as [`all`][all].

This brings us back to our initial example:

<CodeBlock language="tsx" title="src/scenes/example.tsx">
  {source}
</CodeBlock>

---->

## Troubleshooting

<details>
  <summary>
    <code>npm init @revideo@latest</code> fails to execute.
  </summary>

There was [a bug in npm](https://github.com/npm/cli/issues/5175) causing the
above command to fail. It got fixed in version `8.15.1`. You can follow
[this guide](https://docs.npmjs.com/try-the-latest-stable-version-of-npm) to
update your npm. Alternatively, you can use the following command instead:

```bash
npm exec @revideo/create@latest
```

</details>
<details>
  <summary>
    <code>npm install</code> fails with <code>code ENOENT</code>
  </summary>

If `npm install` fails with the following error:

```bash
npm ERR! code ENOENT
npm ERR! syscall open
npm ERR! path [path]\package.json
npm ERR! errno -4058
npm ERR! enoent ENOENT: no such file or directory, open '[path]\package.json'
npm ERR! enoent This is related to npm not being able to find a file.
npm ERR! enoent
```

Make sure that you're executing the command in the correct directory. When you
finish bootstrapping the project with `npm init`, it will display three
commands:

```bash
cd [path]
npm install
npm start
```

Did you run the `cd` command to switch to the directory containing your project?

</details>
<details>
  <summary>
    I moved the camera too far away and can't find the preview (The preview is is black)
  </summary>

You can press `0` to refocus the camera on the preview.

</details>
<details>
  <summary>
    The animation ends abruptly or does not start at the beginning.
  </summary>

Make sure the playback range selector in the timeline starts and ends where you
expect it to, e.g., at the beginning and end of your animation. The range
selector is a gray bar in the time axis of your timeline. When you move your
mouse over it, six dots will appear allowing you to manipulate it.

</details>
<details>
  <summary>
    File watching does not work on Windows Subsystem for Linux (WSL) 2
  </summary>

When running Vite on WSL2, file system watching does not work if a file is
edited by Windows applications.

To fix this, move the project folder into the WSL2 file system and use WSL2
applications to edit files. Accessing the Windows file system from WSL2 is slow,
so this will improve performance.

For more information view the
[**Vite Docs**](https://vitejs.dev/config/server-options.html#server-watch).

</details>

[generators]:
  https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Statements/function*
[all]: /api/core/flow#all

Commit message:

refactor: rewrite video frame extractor with fluent-ffmpeg for better error handling (#96)
* refactor: rewrite video frame extractor with fluent-ffmpeg

* fix: resolve telemetry issue, docs

* style: run prettier

* refactor: pin ffprobe

* chore: add package-lock

* fix: move seftffmpegpath inside functions

* chore: ffmpeg logs

packages/docs/docs/quickstart/installation-and-setup.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_position: 1
slug: /installation-and-setup
---

import AnimationPlayer from '@site/src/components/AnimationPlayer';
import CodeBlock from '@theme/CodeBlock';
import source from '!!raw-loader!@revideo/examples/src/scenes/quickstart';

# Installation and Setup

Let's install revideo with a sample project. To use revideo, make sure that you
have [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/) version 16 or greater.

:::info

If you're on Linux, also make sure that you have nscd installed:
`sudo apt-get install nscd`. You need this package for
[ffmpeg](/common-issues/ffmpeg).

:::

### Creating a new project

Run the following command to create a new revideo project (If this fails, check
out the [troubleshooting](#troubleshooting) section):

```bash
npm init @revideo@latest
```

After agreeing to install the `@revideo/create` package and choosing a project
path (`<project-path>`), navigate to your project and install all dependencies:

```shell
cd <project-path>
npm install
```

To preview your video in the editor, run:

```shell
 npm start
```

The editor can now be accessed by visiting
[http://localhost:9000/](http://localhost:9000/). Here you should see the video
shown below. On the [next page](/basic-example), we're going to take a look at
the code of this example.

<video width="708" height="400" controls>
  <source
    src="https://revideo-example-assets.s3.amazonaws.com/revideo-example.mp4"
    type="video/mp4"
  />
  Your browser does not support the video tag.
</video>

```tsx
import {Audio, Img, Video, makeScene2D} from '@revideo/2d';
import {all, chain, createRef, waitFor} from '@revideo/core';

export default makeScene2D(function* (view) {
  const logoRef = createRef<Img>();

  yield view.add(
    <>
      <Video
        src={'https://revideo-example-assets.s3.amazonaws.com/stars.mp4'}
        play={true}
        size={['100%', '100%']}
      />
      <Audio
        src={'https://revideo-example-assets.s3.amazonaws.com/chill-beat.mp3'}
        play={true}
        time={17.0}
      />
    </>,
  );

  yield* waitFor(1);

  view.add(
    <Img
      width={'1%'}
      ref={logoRef}
      src={
        'https://revideo-example-assets.s3.amazonaws.com/revideo-logo-white.png'
      }
    />,
  );

  yield* chain(
    all(logoRef().scale(40, 2), logoRef().rotation(360, 2)),
    logoRef().scale(60, 1),
  );
});
```

<!---

Now save the file. Any changes you make are automatically picked up and
reflected in the preview.

You should see a red circle in the preview pane at the top right of the web
application. Press the play button to see the circle animate across the screen.

### Explanation

Each video in Motion Canvas is represented by a project configuration object. In
our example, this configuration is declared in `src/project.ts`:

```ts title="src/project.ts"
import {makeProject} from '@revideo/core';

import example from './scenes/example?scene';

export default makeProject({
  scenes: [example],
});
```

When creating a project, we need to provide it with an array of scenes to
display. In this case, we use only one scene imported from
`src/scenes/example.tsx`.

A scene is a set of elements displayed on the screen and an animation that
governs them. The most basic scene looks as follows:

```tsx
import {makeScene2D} from '@revideo/2d';

export default makeScene2D(function* (view) {
  // animation
});
```

`makeScene2D()` takes a function generator and turns it into a scene which we
then import in our project file. The function generator describes the flow of
the animation, while the provided `view` argument is used to add elements to the
scene.

You can learn more about scenes, nodes, and this XML-like syntax in the
[scene hierarchy](/hierarchy) section. For now, what's important is that,
in our example, we add an individual [`<Circle/>`](/api/2d/components/Circle)
node to our scene. We make it red, set its width and height as `140` pixels and
position it `300` pixels left from the center:

```tsx
view.add(
  <Circle
    // highlight-start
    ref={myCircle}
    x={-300}
    width={140}
    height={140}
    fill="#e13238"
  />,
);
```

To animate our circle we first need to
[grab a reference to it](/references). That's the purpose of the
[`createRef`](/api/core/utils#createRef) function. We use it to create a
reference and pass it to our circle using the
[`ref`](/api/2d/components/NodeProps#ref) attribute:

```tsx
// highlight-next-line
const myCircle = createRef<Circle>();

view.add(
  <Circle
    // highlight-next-line
    ref={myCircle}
    x={-300}
    width={140}
    height={140}
    fill="#e13238"
  />,
);
```

We then access the circle through `myCircle()` and animate its properties:

```tsx
yield *
  all(
    myCircle().fill('#e6a700', 1).to('#e13238', 1),
    myCircle().position.x(300, 1).to(-300, 1),
  );
```

This snippet may seem a bit confusing so let's break it down.

Each property of a node can be read and updated throughout the animation. For
example, in the circle above we defined its `fill` property as `'#e13238'`:

```tsx
<Circle
  ref={myCircle}
  x={-300}
  width={140}
  height={140}
  // highlight-next-line
  fill="#e13238"
/>
```

Using our reference we can now retrieve this property's value:

```ts
const fill = myCircle().fill(); // '#e13238'
```

We can also update it by passing the new value as the first argument:

```ts
myCircle().fill('#e6a700');
```

This will immediately update the color of our circle. If we want to transition
to a new value over some time, we can pass the transition duration (in seconds)
as the second argument:

```ts
myCircle().fill('#e6a700', 1);
```

This [creates a tween animation](/tweening) that smoothly changes the fill
color over one second.

Animations in Motion Canvas don't play on their own, we need to explicitly tell
them to. This is why scenes are declared using generator functions - they serve
as a description of how the animation should play out. By yielding different
instructions we can tell the scene animation to do different things.

For example, to play the tween we created, we can do:

```ts
yield * myCircle().fill('#e6a700', 1);
```

This will pause the generator, play out the animation we yielded, and then
continue.

To play another animation, right after the first one, we can simply write
another `yield*` statement:

```ts
yield * myCircle().fill('#e6a700', 1);
yield * myCircle().fill('#e13238', 1);
```

But since we're animating the same property, we can write it in a more compact
way:

```ts
yield * myCircle().fill('#e6a700', 1).to('#e13238', 1);
```

In our example, aside from changing the color, we also move our circle around.
We can try doing it the same way we animated the color:

```ts
yield * myCircle().fill('#e6a700', 1).to('#e13238', 1);
yield * myCircle().position.x(300, 1).to(-300, 1);
```

This works, but the position will start animating **after** the fill color. To
make them happen at the same time, we use the [`all`][all] function:

```ts
yield *
  all(
    myCircle().fill('#e6a700', 1).to('#e13238', 1),
    myCircle().position.x(300, 1).to(-300, 1),
  );
```

[`all`][all] takes one or more animations and merges them together. Now they'll
happen at the same time. The [animation flow](/flow) section goes into more
depth about generators and flow functions such as [`all`][all].

This brings us back to our initial example:

<CodeBlock language="tsx" title="src/scenes/example.tsx">
  {source}
</CodeBlock>

---->

## Troubleshooting

<details>
  <summary>
    <code>npm init @revideo@latest</code> fails to execute.
  </summary>

There was [a bug in npm](https://github.com/npm/cli/issues/5175) causing the
above command to fail. It got fixed in version `8.15.1`. You can follow
[this guide](https://docs.npmjs.com/try-the-latest-stable-version-of-npm) to
update your npm. Alternatively, you can use the following command instead:

```bash
npm exec @revideo/create@latest
```

</details>
<details>
  <summary>
    <code>npm install</code> fails with <code>code ENOENT</code>
  </summary>

If `npm install` fails with the following error:

```bash
npm ERR! code ENOENT
npm ERR! syscall open
npm ERR! path [path]\package.json
npm ERR! errno -4058
npm ERR! enoent ENOENT: no such file or directory, open '[path]\package.json'
npm ERR! enoent This is related to npm not being able to find a file.
npm ERR! enoent
```

Make sure that you're executing the command in the correct directory. When you
finish bootstrapping the project with `npm init`, it will display three
commands:

```bash
cd [path]
npm install
npm start
```

Did you run the `cd` command to switch to the directory containing your project?

</details>
<details>
  <summary>
    I moved the camera too far away and can't find the preview (The preview is is black)
  </summary>

You can press `0` to refocus the camera on the preview.

</details>
<details>
  <summary>
    The animation ends abruptly or does not start at the beginning.
  </summary>

Make sure the playback range selector in the timeline starts and ends where you
expect it to, e.g., at the beginning and end of your animation. The range
selector is a gray bar in the time axis of your timeline. When you move your
mouse over it, six dots will appear allowing you to manipulate it.

</details>
<details>
  <summary>
    File watching does not work on Windows Subsystem for Linux (WSL) 2
  </summary>

When running Vite on WSL2, file system watching does not work if a file is
edited by Windows applications.

To fix this, move the project folder into the WSL2 file system and use WSL2
applications to edit files. Accessing the Windows file system from WSL2 is slow,
so this will improve performance.

For more information view the
[**Vite Docs**](https://vitejs.dev/config/server-options.html#server-watch).

</details>

[generators]:
  https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Statements/function*
[all]: /api/core/flow#all
