packages/docs/docs/guide/rendering/image-sequence.mdx, before:

---
slug: /rendering/image-sequence
---

# Image sequence

The built-in exporter for Motion Canvas. It stores the rendered frames as a
sequence of images, which can then be imported into a video editor for further
processing.

## Configuration

After selecting the Image sequence exporter in the Video Settings tab, the
following configuration options will become available:

### File Type

The type of image file to which Motion Canvas will convert the frames. Current
options are PNG, JPEG, and WebP. Note that Motion Canvas depends on the
capabilities of your browser to generate image files, and so WebP may not work
on Safari or older browsers.

### Quality

The quality target for compression from 0 to 100, where a lower setting will
result in smaller file sizes but might degrade image quality. A setting of 100
will result in lossless images, such that no detail is lost, but lower settings
will often produce no discernible difference.

### Group by scene

When enabled, each scene will be rendered into a separate image sequence located
in a subdirectory called the same as the scene.

Commit message:

docs: add reference to motion canvas

packages/docs/docs/guide/rendering/image-sequence.mdx, after:

---
slug: /rendering/image-sequence
---

# Image sequence

*Note: These docs were adopted from the original [Motion Canvas](https://motioncanvas.io/docs/) docs*


The built-in exporter for Motion Canvas. It stores the rendered frames as a
sequence of images, which can then be imported into a video editor for further
processing.

## Configuration

After selecting the Image sequence exporter in the Video Settings tab, the
following configuration options will become available:

### File Type

The type of image file to which Motion Canvas will convert the frames. Current
options are PNG, JPEG, and WebP. Note that Motion Canvas depends on the
capabilities of your browser to generate image files, and so WebP may not work
on Safari or older browsers.

### Quality

The quality target for compression from 0 to 100, where a lower setting will
result in smaller file sizes but might degrade image quality. A setting of 100
will result in lossless images, such that no detail is lost, but lower settings
will often produce no discernible difference.

### Group by scene

When enabled, each scene will be rendered into a separate image sequence located
in a subdirectory called the same as the scene.
