packages/docs/docs/guide/rendering/video.mdx, before:

---
slug: /rendering/video
---

# Video (FFmpeg)

An exporter that uses [FFmpeg](https://ffmpeg.org/) to turn your animation into
a finished video.

The exporter is still relatively new and may not have all the features you need.
If you have an idea for how to improve it, feel free to [open a feature
request][issues] on GitHub.

## Installation

:::info

You do **not** need to install FFmpeg yourself. It will be installed
automatically together with the exporter.

:::

### New project

When [scaffolding a new project](/docs/quickstart#creating-a-new-project), you
can select _Video (FFmpeg)_ in the list of available exporters. This will
automatically install the required dependencies and add the necessary
configuration.

### Existing project

If you want to install the exporter in an existing project, run the following
command:

```bash
npm install --save @revideo/ffmpeg
```

And then configure it in your `vite.config.ts` file:

```diff
  import {defineConfig} from 'vite';
  import motionCanvas from '@revideo/vite-plugin';
+ import ffmpeg from '@revideo/ffmpeg';

  export default defineConfig({
    plugins: [
      motionCanvas(),
+     ffmpeg(),
    ],
  });
```

## Configuration

After selecting the Video (FFmpeg) exporter in the Video Settings tab, the
following configuration options will become available:

### Include audio

When enabled, the audio track will be included in the rendered video. This
option is only available if you've [set up audio](/docs/media#audio) for the
current project.

### Fast start

When enabled, the video will be rendered with the Fast Start option. It's an
optimization for videos that will be served over the web. It rearranges the
video data in the file, allowing the video to begin playing before it has
finished downloading.

[issues]: https://github.com/revideo/exporters/issues/new/choose

Commit message:

docs: add reference to motion canvas

packages/docs/docs/guide/rendering/video.mdx, after:

---
slug: /rendering/video
---

# Video (FFmpeg)

*Note: These docs were adopted from the original [Motion Canvas](https://motioncanvas.io/docs/) docs*


An exporter that uses [FFmpeg](https://ffmpeg.org/) to turn your animation into
a finished video.

The exporter is still relatively new and may not have all the features you need.
If you have an idea for how to improve it, feel free to [open a feature
request][issues] on GitHub.

## Installation

:::info

You do **not** need to install FFmpeg yourself. It will be installed
automatically together with the exporter.

:::

### New project

When [scaffolding a new project](/docs/quickstart#creating-a-new-project), you
can select _Video (FFmpeg)_ in the list of available exporters. This will
automatically install the required dependencies and add the necessary
configuration.

### Existing project

If you want to install the exporter in an existing project, run the following
command:

```bash
npm install --save @revideo/ffmpeg
```

And then configure it in your `vite.config.ts` file:

```diff
  import {defineConfig} from 'vite';
  import motionCanvas from '@revideo/vite-plugin';
+ import ffmpeg from '@revideo/ffmpeg';

  export default defineConfig({
    plugins: [
      motionCanvas(),
+     ffmpeg(),
    ],
  });
```

## Configuration

After selecting the Video (FFmpeg) exporter in the Video Settings tab, the
following configuration options will become available:

### Include audio

When enabled, the audio track will be included in the rendered video. This
option is only available if you've [set up audio](/docs/media#audio) for the
current project.

### Fast start

When enabled, the video will be rendered with the Fast Start option. It's an
optimization for videos that will be served over the web. It rearranges the
video data in the file, allowing the video to begin playing before it has
finished downloading.

[issues]: https://github.com/revideo/exporters/issues/new/choose
