packages/docs/docs/common-issues/ffmpeg.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_position: 1
slug: /common-issues/ffmpeg
---

# FFmpeg Issues

Ffmpeg is a powerful tool for video editing. Revideo uses FFmpeg for multiple
tasks, such as concatinating frames into a video, and audio manipulation among
other things.

Revideo uses FFmpeg v6. To make installation easier, we ship a small version of
FFmpeg with Revideo. It is automatically downloaded into the `node_modules`
folder. This means that you do not need to install FFmpeg globally on your
machine.

:::info

We're currently investigating issues with FFmpeg on Linux (specifically Debian).
If you're having issues with FFmpeg, you can install your own version globally
on your machine using conventional methods and then set the ffmpeg path to a
custom path. Instructions are below. Make sure to install FFmpeg v6.

:::

If you want to use a custom version of FFmpeg, you can either set the
environment variable `FFMPEG_PATH` to the path of your FFmpeg binary, or you can
set the path to ffmpeg in the render function. Here is an example:

```tsx
import {renderVideo} from '@revideo/renderer';

// ...

await renderVideo('./vite.config.ts', undefined, undefined, {
  ffmpeg: {
    // Points to the global ffmpeg installation,
    ffmpegPath: 'ffmpeg',
  },
});
```

See the [renderVideo](/renderer/renderVideo) API documentation for more
information.

Commit message:

fix: resolve telemetry issue, docs

packages/docs/docs/common-issues/ffmpeg.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_position: 1
slug: /common-issues/ffmpeg
---

# FFmpeg Issues

Ffmpeg is a powerful tool for video editing. Revideo uses FFmpeg for multiple
tasks, such as concatenating frames into a video, and audio manipulation among
other things.

Revideo uses FFmpeg v6. To make installation easier, we ship a small version of
FFmpeg with Revideo. It is automatically downloaded into the `node_modules`
folder. This means that you do not need to install FFmpeg globally on your
machine.

Below, we list some common issues with ffmpeg and how to fix them.

### SIGSEGV (Segmentation Fault) when running Ffmpeg.

If you're on Linux, the ffmpeg version used in Revideo might cause a segmentation fault if you use remote urls for media files instead of local files.

You can normally fix this issue by installing nscd:

```
sudo apt-get install nscd
```

If you want to learn more about the root cause of this issue and its fix, check out [this](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/60528501/ffmpeg-segmentation-fault-with-network-stream-source) Stackoverflow thread,


### Using a custom ffmpeg path

If you want to use a custom version of FFmpeg, you can either set the
environment variable `FFMPEG_PATH` to the path of your FFmpeg binary, or you can
set the path to ffmpeg in the render function. Here is an example:

```tsx
import {renderVideo} from '@revideo/renderer';

// ...

await renderVideo('./vite.config.ts', undefined, undefined, {
  ffmpeg: {
    // Points to the global ffmpeg installation,
    ffmpegPath: 'ffmpeg',
  },
});
```

See the [renderVideo](/renderer/renderVideo) API documentation for more
information.
