packages/docs/docs/common-issues/slow-rendering.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_position: 2
slug: /common-issues/slow-rendering
---

# Slow Rendering

The rendering speed of Revideo projects depends on the content of your video.
Projects that contain no `<Video/>` elements generally render much faster than
those that do, as processing videos is an expensive operation.

Here you can find some strategies that can help speed up rendering:

### Set `png={false}` in `<Video/>` tags

The frames of `<Video/>` elements are extracted as png by default to ensure the
highest quality possible. If you are okay with a slightly lower quality, you can
set `png={false}` to extract video frames as jpeg:

```tsx
<Video src={'/myvideo.mp4'} play={true} png={false} />
```

In our experience, this can speed up rendering by a factor of up to five.

### Lower output resolution through `resolutionScale` in `project.meta`.

You can scale down the quality of your render output by setting the
`resolutionScale` parameter in the `rendering` section of `project.meta`. We
have noticed that setting the scale to 0.5 made our renders twice as fast as
with the default of 1.0.

### Use smaller assets

When using media such as `<Img/>` or `<Video/>` elements, processing large files
takes Revideo longer than smaller ones. If you want to render a video with a
resolution of 1920x1080, it would be overkill to insert a 4K video inside a
`<Video/>` tag, as the resolution will be scaled down anyway. In this case, you
can speed up renders by using a smaller file.

### Parallelize Rendering

You can parallelize your rendering workloads using the `workers`: argument in
`renderVideo()` ([docs](https://docs.re.video/api/renderer/renderVideo/)). Note
that this can get memory-intensive, as it spins up multiple ffmpeg workers in
parallel - you might have to switch to more powerful hardware to support a lot
of workers.

Alternatively, you can also parallelize render workloads using
`renderPartialVideo()`
([docs](https://docs.re.video/renderer/renderPartialVideo/)) and serverless
function services such as Google Cloud Run or AWS Lambda. We have released an
[example project](https://github.com/redotvideo/examples/tree/main/google-cloud-run-parallelized)
demostrating how you can set up parallel rendering with Google Cloud Functions,
and will release a guide for AWS Lambda soon.

We will soon release a managed platform that enables fast, parallelized
rendering. If you are interested in getting access, feel free to register
interest [here](https://tally.so/r/mOz4GK).

Commit message:

fix: select decoder based on file type

packages/docs/docs/common-issues/slow-rendering.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_position: 2
slug: /common-issues/slow-rendering
---

# Slow Rendering

The rendering speed of Revideo projects depends on the content of your video.
Projects that contain no `<Video/>` elements generally render much faster than
those that do, as processing videos is an expensive operation.

Here you can find some strategies that can help speed up rendering:

### Upgrade to >=v0.4.4

We regularly release new versions of Revideo that often come with performance improvements. To get the best rendering speeds possible, make sure to upgrade Revideo to >=v0.4.4.

### Use MP4 decoder

We use the Webcodecs API to extract frames from `<Video/>` elements during rendering. This, however, is currently only supported for mp4 files, and Revideo will use Ffmpeg-based decoder or naively seek set the `.currentTime` attribute on the HTMLVideoElement if it detects another file type. If Revideo fails to detect a file type, you will receive the following warning: 

_WARNING: Could not detect file type of video, will default to using mp4 decoder. If your video file is no mp4 file, this will lead to an error - to fix this, reencode your video as an mp4 file (better performance) or specify a different decoder._

If this occurs, you can set the decoder explicitly as a prop of your `<Video/>` tag:

```tsx
yield view.add(<Video
    src={"your_file"}
    decoder={"web"}
/>);
```

You should use the following decoder for different file types:

- `decoder={"web"}` for mp4
- `decoder={"ffmpeg"}` for .webm
- `decoder={"slow"}` for everything else


### Lower output resolution through `resolutionScale` in `project.meta`.

You can scale down the quality of your render output by setting the
`resolutionScale` parameter in the `rendering` section of `project.meta`. We
have noticed that setting the scale to 0.5 made our renders twice as fast as
with the default of 1.0.

### Use smaller assets

When using media such as `<Img/>` or `<Video/>` elements, processing large files
takes Revideo longer than smaller ones. If you want to render a video with a
resolution of 1920x1080, it would be overkill to insert a 4K video inside a
`<Video/>` tag, as the resolution will be scaled down anyway. In this case, you
can speed up renders by using a smaller file.

### Parallelize Rendering

You can parallelize your rendering workloads using the `workers`: argument in
`renderVideo()` ([docs](https://docs.re.video/api/renderer/renderVideo/)). Note
that this can get memory-intensive, as it spins up multiple ffmpeg workers in
parallel - you might have to switch to more powerful hardware to support a lot
of workers.

Alternatively, you can also parallelize render workloads using
`renderPartialVideo()`
([docs](https://docs.re.video/renderer/renderPartialVideo/)) and serverless
function services such as Google Cloud Run or AWS Lambda. We have released an
[example project](https://github.com/redotvideo/examples/tree/main/google-cloud-run-parallelized)
demostrating how you can set up parallel rendering with Google Cloud Functions,
and will release a guide for AWS Lambda soon.

We will soon release a managed platform that enables fast, parallelized
rendering. If you are interested in getting access, feel free to register
interest [here](https://tally.so/r/mOz4GK).
