packages/docs/docs/guide/configuration.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_position: 16
slug: /configuration
---

# Configuration

Motion Canvas is configured in the Vite's configuration file:

```ts title="vite.config.ts"
import {defineConfig} from 'vite';
import motionCanvas from '@revideo/vite-plugin';

export default defineConfig({
  plugins: [
    motionCanvas({
      // custom options
    }),
  ],
});
```

### `project`

- Type: `string | string[]`
- Default: `./src/project.ts`

The import path of the project file, relative to the configuration file. Globs
are also supported. A project file must contain a default export with an
instance of the `Project` class.

When set to an array, the Editor will display a project selection screen, making
it possible to change the project without restarting Vite.

```ts
motionCanvas({
  project: [
    // highlight-start
    './src/firstProject.ts',
    './src/secondProject.ts',
  ],
});
```

### `output`

- Type: `string`
- Default: `./output`

An output path to which the animation will be saved. Relative to the
configuration file.

When rendering, the complete path has the following format:

```
[output]/[projectName]/[frameNumber].[extension]
```

Stills are saved to a `still` subdirectory:

```
[output]/still/[projectName]/[frameNumber].[extension]
```

### `bufferedAssets`

- Type: RegExp | false
- Default: `/\.(wav|ogg)$/`

Defines which assets should be buffered before being sent to the browser.

Streaming larger assets directly from the drive may cause issues with other
applications. For instance, if an audio file is being used in the project, Adobe
Audition will perceive it as "being used by another application" and refuse to
override it.

Buffered assets are first loaded to the memory and then streamed from there.
This leaves the original files open for modification with hot module replacement
still working.

### `editor`

- Type: `string`
- Default: `@revideo/ui`

The import path of the editor package.

This option can be used to develop/use an editor different than the official
one. The path will be resolved using Node.js module resolution rules. It should
lead to a directory containing the following files:

- `editor.html` - The HTML template for the editor.
- `styles.css` - The editor styles.
- `main.js` - A module exporting necessary factory functions.

`main.js` should export the following functions:

- `editor` - Receives the project factory as its first argument and creates the
  user interface.
- `index` - Receives a list of all projects as its first argument and creates
  the initial page for selecting a project.

### `proxy`

- Type: `boolean | MotionCanvasCorsProxyOptions`
- Default: `false`

The configuration of the Proxy used for remote sources.

This passes configuration to Motion Canvas' proxy. The proxy is disabled by
default. You can either pass `true` or a config object to enable it.

- `allowedMimeTypes?: string[]` - Set which types of resources are allowed by
  default. Catchall on the right side is supported. Pass an empty Array to allow
  all types of resources, although this is not recommended. Defaults to
  `["image/*", "video/*"]`.
- `allowListHosts?: string[]` - Set which hosts are allowed Note that the host
  is everything to the left of the first `/`, and to the right of the protocol
  `https://`. AllowList is not used by default, although you should consider
  setting up just the relevant hosts.

Commit message:

docs: add reference to motion canvas

packages/docs/docs/guide/configuration.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_position: 16
slug: /configuration
---

# Configuration

*Note: These docs were adopted from the original [Motion Canvas](https://motioncanvas.io/docs/) docs*


Motion Canvas is configured in the Vite's configuration file:

```ts title="vite.config.ts"
import {defineConfig} from 'vite';
import motionCanvas from '@revideo/vite-plugin';

export default defineConfig({
  plugins: [
    motionCanvas({
      // custom options
    }),
  ],
});
```

### `project`

- Type: `string | string[]`
- Default: `./src/project.ts`

The import path of the project file, relative to the configuration file. Globs
are also supported. A project file must contain a default export with an
instance of the `Project` class.

When set to an array, the Editor will display a project selection screen, making
it possible to change the project without restarting Vite.

```ts
motionCanvas({
  project: [
    // highlight-start
    './src/firstProject.ts',
    './src/secondProject.ts',
  ],
});
```

### `output`

- Type: `string`
- Default: `./output`

An output path to which the animation will be saved. Relative to the
configuration file.

When rendering, the complete path has the following format:

```
[output]/[projectName]/[frameNumber].[extension]
```

Stills are saved to a `still` subdirectory:

```
[output]/still/[projectName]/[frameNumber].[extension]
```

### `bufferedAssets`

- Type: RegExp | false
- Default: `/\.(wav|ogg)$/`

Defines which assets should be buffered before being sent to the browser.

Streaming larger assets directly from the drive may cause issues with other
applications. For instance, if an audio file is being used in the project, Adobe
Audition will perceive it as "being used by another application" and refuse to
override it.

Buffered assets are first loaded to the memory and then streamed from there.
This leaves the original files open for modification with hot module replacement
still working.

### `editor`

- Type: `string`
- Default: `@revideo/ui`

The import path of the editor package.

This option can be used to develop/use an editor different than the official
one. The path will be resolved using Node.js module resolution rules. It should
lead to a directory containing the following files:

- `editor.html` - The HTML template for the editor.
- `styles.css` - The editor styles.
- `main.js` - A module exporting necessary factory functions.

`main.js` should export the following functions:

- `editor` - Receives the project factory as its first argument and creates the
  user interface.
- `index` - Receives a list of all projects as its first argument and creates
  the initial page for selecting a project.

### `proxy`

- Type: `boolean | MotionCanvasCorsProxyOptions`
- Default: `false`

The configuration of the Proxy used for remote sources.

This passes configuration to Motion Canvas' proxy. The proxy is disabled by
default. You can either pass `true` or a config object to enable it.

- `allowedMimeTypes?: string[]` - Set which types of resources are allowed by
  default. Catchall on the right side is supported. Pass an empty Array to allow
  all types of resources, although this is not recommended. Defaults to
  `["image/*", "video/*"]`.
- `allowListHosts?: string[]` - Set which hosts are allowed Note that the host
  is everything to the left of the first `/`, and to the right of the protocol
  `https://`. AllowList is not used by default, although you should consider
  setting up just the relevant hosts.
