packages/docs/docs/guide/logging.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_position: 12
slug: /logging
---

# Logging

One method of debugging your code or animation flow is using logging messages.
For this, revideo has its own built-in way to log messages.

To get a reference to the Logger in revideo you can use the `useLogger`
function:

```tsx
import {makeScene2D} from '@revideo/2d';
import {useLogger} from '@revideo/core';

export default makeScene2D(function* (view) {
  const logger = useLogger();
  // ...
});
```

## Basic

Now that we know how to get a reference to the `Logger` we can take a look at
different ways to log messages. On way is to use standard logging functions like
`debug`, `info`, `warn` and `error` and simply log a string:

```tsx
logger.debug('Just here to debug some code.');
logger.info('All fine just a little info.');
logger.warn('Be careful something has gone wrong.');
logger.error('Ups. An error occured.');
```

These messages get then displayed in the UI under the `Console` tab on the left
side.

## Payloads

In some cases you might want to have a bit more detail in your log messages like
a `stacktrace` or an `object`. You can use payloads to provide more information
to your log messages.

```ts
logger.debug({
  message: 'Some more advanced logging',
  remarks: 'Some remarks about this log. Can also contain <b>HTML</b> tags.',
  object: {
    someProperty: 'some property value',
  },
  durationMs: 200,
  stack: new Error('').stack,
});
```

This creates a collapsed log message in the UI which can be expanded to view all
the details provided.

![](/img/logpayload-message.png)

:::tip

If you quickly want to debug something you can also `debug()`. That way you
don't have to `useLogger` manually and create a payload.

:::

## Profiling

Besides logging messages its also possible to profile certain sections of code
with the `Logger`:

```ts
logger.profile('id'); // <-- starts the profiling
// some expensive calculation
logger.profile('id'); // <-- ends the profiling
```

Commit message:

docs: add reference to motion canvas

packages/docs/docs/guide/logging.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_position: 12
slug: /logging
---

# Logging

*Note: These docs were adopted from the original [Motion Canvas](https://motioncanvas.io/docs/) docs*

One method of debugging your code or animation flow is using logging messages.
For this, revideo has its own built-in way to log messages.

To get a reference to the Logger in revideo you can use the `useLogger`
function:

```tsx
import {makeScene2D} from '@revideo/2d';
import {useLogger} from '@revideo/core';

export default makeScene2D(function* (view) {
  const logger = useLogger();
  // ...
});
```

## Basic

Now that we know how to get a reference to the `Logger` we can take a look at
different ways to log messages. On way is to use standard logging functions like
`debug`, `info`, `warn` and `error` and simply log a string:

```tsx
logger.debug('Just here to debug some code.');
logger.info('All fine just a little info.');
logger.warn('Be careful something has gone wrong.');
logger.error('Ups. An error occured.');
```

These messages get then displayed in the UI under the `Console` tab on the left
side.

## Payloads

In some cases you might want to have a bit more detail in your log messages like
a `stacktrace` or an `object`. You can use payloads to provide more information
to your log messages.

```ts
logger.debug({
  message: 'Some more advanced logging',
  remarks: 'Some remarks about this log. Can also contain <b>HTML</b> tags.',
  object: {
    someProperty: 'some property value',
  },
  durationMs: 200,
  stack: new Error('').stack,
});
```

This creates a collapsed log message in the UI which can be expanded to view all
the details provided.

![](/img/logpayload-message.png)

:::tip

If you quickly want to debug something you can also `debug()`. That way you
don't have to `useLogger` manually and create a payload.

:::

## Profiling

Besides logging messages its also possible to profile certain sections of code
with the `Logger`:

```ts
logger.profile('id'); // <-- starts the profiling
// some expensive calculation
logger.profile('id'); // <-- ends the profiling
```
