packages/docs/docs/guide/references.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_position: 7
slug: /references
---

# References

Usually, when creating a node, we want to store a reference to it, so we can
animate it later. One way to do that is by assigning it to a variable first, and
then adding it to the scene:

```tsx
const circle = <Circle />;
view.add(circle);

// we can now animate our circle:
yield * circle.scale(2, 0.3);
```

:::info

If you're used to libraries such as React, the above example may seem strange.
In Motion Canvas, the JSX components immediately create and return an instance
of the given class. It's completely valid to store it as a reference and use it
throughout the animation.

:::

But this approach doesn't scale well. The more nodes we add, the harder it gets
to see the overall structure of our scene. Consider the following example:

```tsx
const rectA = <Rect />;
const rectB = <Rect />;
const circle = <Circle>{rectA}</Circle>;
view.add(
  <Layout>
    {circle}
    {rectB}
  </Layout>,
);
```

And now compare it to a version that doesn't store any references:

```tsx
view.add(
  <Layout>
    <Circle>
      <Rect />
    </Circle>
    <Rect />
  </Layout>,
);
```

If you find the latter example more readable, this guide is for you.

## `ref` property

Each node in Motion Canvas has a property called `ref` that allows you to create
a reference to said node. It accepts a callback that will be invoked right after
the node has been created, with the first argument being the newly created
instance.

With this in mind, we can rewrite the initial example as:

```tsx
let circle: Circle;
view.add(
  <Circle
    ref={instance => {
      circle = instance;
    }}
  />,
);

yield * circle.scale(2, 0.3);
```

Using the `ref` property in this way is not really practical, and we wouldn't
recommend it. But it's crucial to understand how it works because all the
upcoming methods use this property as a base.

## `createRef()` function

The preferred way of using the `ref` property is in conjunction with the
[`createRef()`](/api/core/utils#createRef) function. Continuing with our
example, we can rewrite it as:

```tsx
import {createRef} from '@revideo/core';

// ...

const circle = createRef<Circle>();
view.add(<Circle ref={circle} />);

yield * circle().scale(2, 0.3);
```

Notice that `circle` is no longer just a variable that points to our circle.
Instead, it's a [signal-like](/docs/signals) function that can be used to access
it. Invoking it without any arguments (`circle()`) returns our instance.

Going back to the example with the more complex scene, we can now rewrite it as:

```tsx
const rectA = createRef<Rect>();
const rectB = createRef<Rect>();
const circle = createRef<Circle>();
view.add(
  <Layout>
    <Circle ref={circle}>
      <Rect ref={rectA} />
    </Circle>
    <Rect ref={rectB} />
  </Layout>,
);
```

## `makeRef()` function

Another common use case of the `ref` property is to assign the newly created
instance to a property of some object. In the following example, we assign our
circle to `circle.instance` (We'll talk about why this may be useful in a bit):

```tsx
const circle = {instance: null as Circle};
view.add(
  <Circle
    // highlight-start
    ref={instance => {
      circle.instance = instance;
    }}
    // highlight-end
  />,
);
```

We can use the [`makeRef()`](/api/core/utils#makeRef) function to simplify this
process:

```tsx
import {makeRef} from '@revideo/core';

// ...

const circle = {instance: null as Circle};
view.add(
  // highlight-next-line
  <Circle ref={makeRef(circle, 'instance')} />,
);
```

### Array of references

`makeRef()` can be particularly useful when we create an array of nodes and want
to grab references to all of them:

```tsx
const circles: Circle[] = [];
view.add(
  <Layout>
    {range(10).map(index => (
      // highlight-next-line
      <Circle ref={makeRef(circles, index)} />
    ))}
  </Layout>,
);
```

In JavaScript, arrays are objects whose properties are their indices. So
`makeRef(circles, index)` will set the nth element of our array to the created
circle. As a result, we end up with an array of size `10` filled with circles
that we can use to animate all of them.

You can also use the [`createRefArray()`](/api/core/utils#createRefArray) helper
function to achieve the same result:

```tsx
import {createRefArray, range} from '@revideo/core';

// ...

const circles = createRefArray<Circle>();
view.add(
  <Layout>
    {range(10).map(() => (
      <Circle ref={circles} />
    ))}
  </Layout>,
);
```

This time we don't specify the index. Whenever we pass the `circles` array to
the `ref` property, the newly created circle will be appended to our array.

:::tip

Check out [the looping section in the flow guide](/docs/flow#looping) to see how
an array of references can be used to orchestrate animations.

:::

### Custom functions

`makeRef()` can also be used to return more than one reference from a custom
function component:

```tsx
function Label({
  refs,
  children,
}: {
  refs: {rect: Rect; text: Txt};
  children: string;
}) {
  return (
    // highlight-next-line
    <Rect ref={makeRef(refs, 'rect')}>
      // highlight-next-line
      <Txt ref={makeRef(refs, 'text')}>{children}</Txt>
    </Rect>
  );
}

const label = {rect: null as Rect, text: null as Txt};
view.add(<Label refs={label}>HELLO</Label>);

// we can now animate both the Rect and the Text of our label:
yield * label.rect.opacity(2, 0.3);
yield * label.text.fontSize(24, 0.3);
```

In this example, we define a function component called `Label` consisting of a
rectangle with some text inside. When using the component, we use the `refs`
property to pass the `label` object created by us. `makeRef()` is then used to
fill this object with all the necessary references.

## `createRefMap()` function

As the scene grows in complexity, declaring a reference for each node can become
tedious. The [`createRefMap()`](/api/core/utils#createRefMap) helper function
lets us group references together based on the type of the node:

```tsx
import {createRefMap} from '@revideo/core';

// ...

const labels = createRefMap<Txt>();
view.add(
  <>
    <Txt ref={labels.a}>A</Txt>
    <Txt ref={labels.b}>B</Txt>
    <Txt ref={labels.c}>C</Txt>
  </>,
);
```

The returned object is a map that can store however many references we need. In
the above example, we assign three `Txt` references under the keys `a`, `b`, and
`c`. Simply accessing a property of the map, like `labels.a` will create a
reference for us. The names of the properties are arbitrary and can be anything
we want.

Later on, we can retrieve the references using the same keys:

```tsx
yield * labels.a().text('A changes', 0.3);
yield * labels.b().text('B changes', 0.3);
yield * labels.c().text('C changes', 0.3);
```

To check if a reference exists, we can use the `in` operator. This will avoid
creating a reference:

```tsx
if ('d' in labels) {
  yield * labels.d().text('D changes', 0.3);
}
```

The returned object comes with a `mapRefs` method that lets us map over all
references in the map. It's similar to the [Array.prototype.map][array map]
function:

```ts
yield * all(...labels.mapRefs(label => label.fill('white', 0.3)));
```

## `makeRefs()` function

Looking at the previous example, you may notice that we had to define the `refs`
type twice. First in the `Label` declaration and then again when creating the
`label` object:

```tsx
function Label({
  refs,
  children,
}: {
  // highlight-next-line
  refs: {rect: Rect; text: Txt};
  children: string;
}) {
  return (
    <Rect ref={makeRef(refs, 'rect')}>
      <Txt ref={makeRef(refs, 'text')}>{children}</Txt>
    </Rect>
  );
}

// highlight-next-line
const label = {rect: null as Rect, text: null as Txt};
view.add(<Label refs={label}>HELLO</Label>);
```

We can use [`makeRefs()`](/api/core/utils#makeRefs) to eliminate this
redundancy. It can extract the type from the `Label` declaration and create an
empty object matching it:

```tsx
import {makeRef, makeRefs} from '@revideo/core';

// ...

function Label({
  refs,
  children,
}: {
  // highlight-next-line
  refs: {rect: Rect; text: Txt};
  children: string;
}) {
  return (
    <Rect ref={makeRef(refs, 'rect')}>
      <Txt ref={makeRef(refs, 'text')}>{children}</Txt>
    </Rect>
  );
}

// highlight-next-line
const label = makeRefs<typeof Label>();
view.add(<Label refs={label}>HELLO</Label>);
```

[array map]:
  https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array/map

Commit message:

docs: add reference to motion canvas

packages/docs/docs/guide/references.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_position: 7
slug: /references
---

# References

*Note: These docs were adopted from the original [Motion Canvas](https://motioncanvas.io/docs/) docs*

Usually, when creating a node, we want to store a reference to it, so we can
animate it later. One way to do that is by assigning it to a variable first, and
then adding it to the scene:

```tsx
const circle = <Circle />;
view.add(circle);

// we can now animate our circle:
yield * circle.scale(2, 0.3);
```

:::info

If you're used to libraries such as React, the above example may seem strange.
In Motion Canvas, the JSX components immediately create and return an instance
of the given class. It's completely valid to store it as a reference and use it
throughout the animation.

:::

But this approach doesn't scale well. The more nodes we add, the harder it gets
to see the overall structure of our scene. Consider the following example:

```tsx
const rectA = <Rect />;
const rectB = <Rect />;
const circle = <Circle>{rectA}</Circle>;
view.add(
  <Layout>
    {circle}
    {rectB}
  </Layout>,
);
```

And now compare it to a version that doesn't store any references:

```tsx
view.add(
  <Layout>
    <Circle>
      <Rect />
    </Circle>
    <Rect />
  </Layout>,
);
```

If you find the latter example more readable, this guide is for you.

## `ref` property

Each node in Motion Canvas has a property called `ref` that allows you to create
a reference to said node. It accepts a callback that will be invoked right after
the node has been created, with the first argument being the newly created
instance.

With this in mind, we can rewrite the initial example as:

```tsx
let circle: Circle;
view.add(
  <Circle
    ref={instance => {
      circle = instance;
    }}
  />,
);

yield * circle.scale(2, 0.3);
```

Using the `ref` property in this way is not really practical, and we wouldn't
recommend it. But it's crucial to understand how it works because all the
upcoming methods use this property as a base.

## `createRef()` function

The preferred way of using the `ref` property is in conjunction with the
[`createRef()`](/api/core/utils#createRef) function. Continuing with our
example, we can rewrite it as:

```tsx
import {createRef} from '@revideo/core';

// ...

const circle = createRef<Circle>();
view.add(<Circle ref={circle} />);

yield * circle().scale(2, 0.3);
```

Notice that `circle` is no longer just a variable that points to our circle.
Instead, it's a [signal-like](/docs/signals) function that can be used to access
it. Invoking it without any arguments (`circle()`) returns our instance.

Going back to the example with the more complex scene, we can now rewrite it as:

```tsx
const rectA = createRef<Rect>();
const rectB = createRef<Rect>();
const circle = createRef<Circle>();
view.add(
  <Layout>
    <Circle ref={circle}>
      <Rect ref={rectA} />
    </Circle>
    <Rect ref={rectB} />
  </Layout>,
);
```

## `makeRef()` function

Another common use case of the `ref` property is to assign the newly created
instance to a property of some object. In the following example, we assign our
circle to `circle.instance` (We'll talk about why this may be useful in a bit):

```tsx
const circle = {instance: null as Circle};
view.add(
  <Circle
    // highlight-start
    ref={instance => {
      circle.instance = instance;
    }}
    // highlight-end
  />,
);
```

We can use the [`makeRef()`](/api/core/utils#makeRef) function to simplify this
process:

```tsx
import {makeRef} from '@revideo/core';

// ...

const circle = {instance: null as Circle};
view.add(
  // highlight-next-line
  <Circle ref={makeRef(circle, 'instance')} />,
);
```

### Array of references

`makeRef()` can be particularly useful when we create an array of nodes and want
to grab references to all of them:

```tsx
const circles: Circle[] = [];
view.add(
  <Layout>
    {range(10).map(index => (
      // highlight-next-line
      <Circle ref={makeRef(circles, index)} />
    ))}
  </Layout>,
);
```

In JavaScript, arrays are objects whose properties are their indices. So
`makeRef(circles, index)` will set the nth element of our array to the created
circle. As a result, we end up with an array of size `10` filled with circles
that we can use to animate all of them.

You can also use the [`createRefArray()`](/api/core/utils#createRefArray) helper
function to achieve the same result:

```tsx
import {createRefArray, range} from '@revideo/core';

// ...

const circles = createRefArray<Circle>();
view.add(
  <Layout>
    {range(10).map(() => (
      <Circle ref={circles} />
    ))}
  </Layout>,
);
```

This time we don't specify the index. Whenever we pass the `circles` array to
the `ref` property, the newly created circle will be appended to our array.

:::tip

Check out [the looping section in the flow guide](/docs/flow#looping) to see how
an array of references can be used to orchestrate animations.

:::

### Custom functions

`makeRef()` can also be used to return more than one reference from a custom
function component:

```tsx
function Label({
  refs,
  children,
}: {
  refs: {rect: Rect; text: Txt};
  children: string;
}) {
  return (
    // highlight-next-line
    <Rect ref={makeRef(refs, 'rect')}>
      // highlight-next-line
      <Txt ref={makeRef(refs, 'text')}>{children}</Txt>
    </Rect>
  );
}

const label = {rect: null as Rect, text: null as Txt};
view.add(<Label refs={label}>HELLO</Label>);

// we can now animate both the Rect and the Text of our label:
yield * label.rect.opacity(2, 0.3);
yield * label.text.fontSize(24, 0.3);
```

In this example, we define a function component called `Label` consisting of a
rectangle with some text inside. When using the component, we use the `refs`
property to pass the `label` object created by us. `makeRef()` is then used to
fill this object with all the necessary references.

## `createRefMap()` function

As the scene grows in complexity, declaring a reference for each node can become
tedious. The [`createRefMap()`](/api/core/utils#createRefMap) helper function
lets us group references together based on the type of the node:

```tsx
import {createRefMap} from '@revideo/core';

// ...

const labels = createRefMap<Txt>();
view.add(
  <>
    <Txt ref={labels.a}>A</Txt>
    <Txt ref={labels.b}>B</Txt>
    <Txt ref={labels.c}>C</Txt>
  </>,
);
```

The returned object is a map that can store however many references we need. In
the above example, we assign three `Txt` references under the keys `a`, `b`, and
`c`. Simply accessing a property of the map, like `labels.a` will create a
reference for us. The names of the properties are arbitrary and can be anything
we want.

Later on, we can retrieve the references using the same keys:

```tsx
yield * labels.a().text('A changes', 0.3);
yield * labels.b().text('B changes', 0.3);
yield * labels.c().text('C changes', 0.3);
```

To check if a reference exists, we can use the `in` operator. This will avoid
creating a reference:

```tsx
if ('d' in labels) {
  yield * labels.d().text('D changes', 0.3);
}
```

The returned object comes with a `mapRefs` method that lets us map over all
references in the map. It's similar to the [Array.prototype.map][array map]
function:

```ts
yield * all(...labels.mapRefs(label => label.fill('white', 0.3)));
```

## `makeRefs()` function

Looking at the previous example, you may notice that we had to define the `refs`
type twice. First in the `Label` declaration and then again when creating the
`label` object:

```tsx
function Label({
  refs,
  children,
}: {
  // highlight-next-line
  refs: {rect: Rect; text: Txt};
  children: string;
}) {
  return (
    <Rect ref={makeRef(refs, 'rect')}>
      <Txt ref={makeRef(refs, 'text')}>{children}</Txt>
    </Rect>
  );
}

// highlight-next-line
const label = {rect: null as Rect, text: null as Txt};
view.add(<Label refs={label}>HELLO</Label>);
```

We can use [`makeRefs()`](/api/core/utils#makeRefs) to eliminate this
redundancy. It can extract the type from the `Label` declaration and create an
empty object matching it:

```tsx
import {makeRef, makeRefs} from '@revideo/core';

// ...

function Label({
  refs,
  children,
}: {
  // highlight-next-line
  refs: {rect: Rect; text: Txt};
  children: string;
}) {
  return (
    <Rect ref={makeRef(refs, 'rect')}>
      <Txt ref={makeRef(refs, 'text')}>{children}</Txt>
    </Rect>
  );
}

// highlight-next-line
const label = makeRefs<typeof Label>();
view.add(<Label refs={label}>HELLO</Label>);
```

[array map]:
  https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array/map
