packages/docs/docs/migration/3.0.0.mdx, before:

---
title: Version 3
slug: /migrating-to-3.0.0
---

# Migrating to v3

## Installation

Update all `@revideo` packages to version `3.x.x` by running:

```bash
npm install --save @revideo/2d@3 @revideo/core@3 @revideo/ui@3 @revideo/vite-plugin@3
```

## Name changes

This version introduces multiple name changes that are meant to make the code
more readable and less prone to collisions with already existing types. Make
sure to replace the following names in your codebase:

| Old name                        | New name                                                      |
| ------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `Image`                         | [`Img`](/api/2d/components/Img)                               |
| `Text`                          | [`Txt`](/api/2d/components/Txt)                               |
| `Rect` (the type, not the node) | [`BBox`](/api/core/types/BBox)                                |
| `Node.getCacheRect`             | [`Node.getCacheBBox`](/api/2d/components/Node#getCacheBBox)   |
| `Node.cacheRect`                | [`Node.cacheBBox`](/api/2d/components/Node#cacheBBox)         |
| `Node.fullCacheRect`            | [`Node.fullCacheBBox`](/api/2d/components/Node#fullCacheBBox) |
| `CodeBlock.selectionOpacity`    | `CodeBlock.unselectedOpacity`                                 |

## Project configuration

Most project settings are now configured via the editor and stored in the meta
file. After running your project for the first time, the meta file will be
automatically updated to contain these new settings.

You can transfer your configuration from the project file:

```ts title="src/project.ts"
import {makeProject} from '@revideo/core';

import example from './scenes/example?scene';

export default makeProject({
  scenes: [example],
  // highlight-start
  background: '#141414',
  audioOffset: 2,
  // highlight-end
});
```

Over to the meta file:

```json title="src/project.meta"
{
  "version": 1,
  "shared": {
    // highlight-next-line
    "background": "rgb(20,20,20)",
    "range": [0, null],
    "size": {
      "x": 1920,
      "y": 1080
    },
    // highlight-next-line
    "audioOffset": 2
  },
  "preview": {
    "fps": 30,
    "resolutionScale": 1
  },
  "rendering": {
    "fps": 30,
    "resolutionScale": 1,
    "colorSpace": "srgb",
    "fileType": "image/png",
    "quality": 1
  }
}
```

## `CodeBlock` revert

Due to technical issues, [PR #401](https://github.com/revideo/revideo/pull/401)
has been reverted.

- The [`CodeBlock`](/docs/code-block) should be imported using the full path
  again:
  ```ts
  import {CodeBlock} from '@revideo/2d/lib/components/CodeBlock';
  ```
- The `stockTheme` property is not supported for the time being.

Please stay tuned as we try to find a better solution.

Commit message:

docs: add reference to motion canvas

packages/docs/docs/migration/3.0.0.mdx, after:

---
title: Version 3
slug: /migrating-to-3.0.0
---

# Migrating to v3

## Installation

*Note: These docs were adopted from the original [Motion Canvas](https://motioncanvas.io/docs/) docs*

Update all `@revideo` packages to version `3.x.x` by running:

```bash
npm install --save @revideo/2d@3 @revideo/core@3 @revideo/ui@3 @revideo/vite-plugin@3
```

## Name changes

This version introduces multiple name changes that are meant to make the code
more readable and less prone to collisions with already existing types. Make
sure to replace the following names in your codebase:

| Old name                        | New name                                                      |
| ------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `Image`                         | [`Img`](/api/2d/components/Img)                               |
| `Text`                          | [`Txt`](/api/2d/components/Txt)                               |
| `Rect` (the type, not the node) | [`BBox`](/api/core/types/BBox)                                |
| `Node.getCacheRect`             | [`Node.getCacheBBox`](/api/2d/components/Node#getCacheBBox)   |
| `Node.cacheRect`                | [`Node.cacheBBox`](/api/2d/components/Node#cacheBBox)         |
| `Node.fullCacheRect`            | [`Node.fullCacheBBox`](/api/2d/components/Node#fullCacheBBox) |
| `CodeBlock.selectionOpacity`    | `CodeBlock.unselectedOpacity`                                 |

## Project configuration

Most project settings are now configured via the editor and stored in the meta
file. After running your project for the first time, the meta file will be
automatically updated to contain these new settings.

You can transfer your configuration from the project file:

```ts title="src/project.ts"
import {makeProject} from '@revideo/core';

import example from './scenes/example?scene';

export default makeProject({
  scenes: [example],
  // highlight-start
  background: '#141414',
  audioOffset: 2,
  // highlight-end
});
```

Over to the meta file:

```json title="src/project.meta"
{
  "version": 1,
  "shared": {
    // highlight-next-line
    "background": "rgb(20,20,20)",
    "range": [0, null],
    "size": {
      "x": 1920,
      "y": 1080
    },
    // highlight-next-line
    "audioOffset": 2
  },
  "preview": {
    "fps": 30,
    "resolutionScale": 1
  },
  "rendering": {
    "fps": 30,
    "resolutionScale": 1,
    "colorSpace": "srgb",
    "fileType": "image/png",
    "quality": 1
  }
}
```

## `CodeBlock` revert

Due to technical issues, [PR #401](https://github.com/revideo/revideo/pull/401)
has been reverted.

- The [`CodeBlock`](/docs/code-block) should be imported using the full path
  again:
  ```ts
  import {CodeBlock} from '@revideo/2d/lib/components/CodeBlock';
  ```
- The `stockTheme` property is not supported for the time being.

Please stay tuned as we try to find a better solution.
