packages/docs/docs/advanced/custom-font.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_position: 1
slug: /custom-font
---

# Custom font

## Loading fonts from the web

To use a font from hosters like Google Fonts. First make a css file under `src`

```diff
root
└─src
  ├─scenes/
  ├─revideo.d.ts
  ├─project.meta
  ├─project.ts
+ └─global.css
```

Inside `global.css`, import the font using `@import url(your link)`.

```css
@import url('https://fonts.googleapis.com/css2?family=Fira+Code:wght@400;700&display=swap');
```

Then, in `project.ts`, import the css file.

```ts
import {makeProject} from '@revideo/core';

import example from './scenes/example?scene';

import './global.css'; // <- import the css

export default makeProject({
  scenes: [example],
});
```

Now you can reference the fonts in the `fontFamily` property in this project.

```tsx
<Txt fontFamily={'Fira Code'}>Fira Code</Txt>
```

## Loading fonts from local

For local fonts, make a directory `fonts` and put your font inside it.

```diff
root
└─public
+ └─fonts *
+   └─CASCADIACODE.TTF
```

Inside `global.css`, import the font using `@font-face`.

```css
@import url('https://fonts.googleapis.com/css2?family=Fira+Code:wght@400;700&display=swap');

@font-face {
  font-family: 'Cascadia Code';
  src:
    local('Cascadia Code'),
    url(public/fonts/CASCADIACODE.TTF) format('truetype');
}
```

Notice the name of the font will match the string in `@font-face/font-family`
from the css.

```tsx
<Layout direction={'column'} alignItems={'center'} layout>
  <Txt fontFamily={'Fira Code'}>Fira Code</Txt>
  <Txt fontFamily={'Cascadia Code'}>Cascadia Code</Txt>
</Layout>
```

Commit message:

docs: add reference to motion canvas

packages/docs/docs/advanced/custom-font.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_position: 1
slug: /custom-font
---

# Custom font

*Note: These docs were adopted from the original [Motion Canvas](https://motioncanvas.io/docs/) docs*

## Loading fonts from the web

To use a font from hosters like Google Fonts. First make a css file under `src`

```diff
root
└─src
  ├─scenes/
  ├─revideo.d.ts
  ├─project.meta
  ├─project.ts
+ └─global.css
```

Inside `global.css`, import the font using `@import url(your link)`.

```css
@import url('https://fonts.googleapis.com/css2?family=Fira+Code:wght@400;700&display=swap');
```

Then, in `project.ts`, import the css file.

```ts
import {makeProject} from '@revideo/core';

import example from './scenes/example?scene';

import './global.css'; // <- import the css

export default makeProject({
  scenes: [example],
});
```

Now you can reference the fonts in the `fontFamily` property in this project.

```tsx
<Txt fontFamily={'Fira Code'}>Fira Code</Txt>
```

## Loading fonts from local

For local fonts, make a directory `fonts` and put your font inside it.

```diff
root
└─public
+ └─fonts *
+   └─CASCADIACODE.TTF
```

Inside `global.css`, import the font using `@font-face`.

```css
@import url('https://fonts.googleapis.com/css2?family=Fira+Code:wght@400;700&display=swap');

@font-face {
  font-family: 'Cascadia Code';
  src:
    local('Cascadia Code'),
    url(public/fonts/CASCADIACODE.TTF) format('truetype');
}
```

Notice the name of the font will match the string in `@font-face/font-family`
from the css.

```tsx
<Layout direction={'column'} alignItems={'center'} layout>
  <Txt fontFamily={'Fira Code'}>Fira Code</Txt>
  <Txt fontFamily={'Cascadia Code'}>Cascadia Code</Txt>
</Layout>
```
