packages/docs/docs/advanced/spawners.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_position: 6
slug: /spawners
---

# Spawners

Sometimes we want the children of a given node to be reactive. In other words,
we want them to change according to some external state. Consider the following
example:

```tsx
const count = createSignal(10);

view.add(
  <Layout layout>
    {range(count()).map(() => (
      <Circle size={32} fill={'white'} />
    ))}
  </Layout>,
);
```

We first create the `count` signal and then use its value to generate N number
of circles.

This example is not reactive - changing the `count` signal won't change the
number of circles inside the `Layout` node. We can fix that by using a function
that returns the children instead of writing them directly:

```tsx
const count = createSignal(10);

view.add(
  <Layout layout>
    {() => range(count()).map(() => <Circle size={32} fill={'white'} />)}
  </Layout>,
);
```

Throughout this guide, we will refer to functions that return children as
**spawners**. Like any other signal, this function will keep track of its
dependencies and recompute its value whenever they change. We can animate our
`count` signal to see if it works:

```tsx editor
import {makeScene2D, Layout, Circle} from '@revideo/2d';
import {createSignal, linear, range} from '@revideo/core';

export default makeScene2D(function* (view) {
  const count = createSignal(10);

  view.add(
    <Layout layout>
      {() => range(count()).map(() => <Circle size={32} fill={'white'} />)}
    </Layout>,
  );

  yield* count(3, 2, linear).wait(1).back(2);
});
```

It's important to remember that creating new nodes comes with some overhead. If
our spawner happens to generate a large number of nodes and its dependencies
change every frame, it may drastically reduce the playback's performance. To
counteract this, we can use an object pool that will let us reuse the same nodes
instead of recreating them each time:

```tsx
const count = createSignal(10);

const pool = range(64).map(i => (
  <Circle x={i * 32} width={32} height={32} fill={'lightseagreen'} />
));

const layout = createRef<Layout>();
view.add(
  <Layout layout ref={layout}>
    {() => pool.slice(0, count())}
  </Layout>,
);
```

Apart from the spawner function, the pool should never be accessed directly. Use
the helper methods on the parent object to get references to the spawned
children:

```tsx
// ... continuing from above ...
let spawnedCircles = layout().childrenAs<Circle>();
yield * all(...spawnedCircles.map(circle => circle.scale(1.5, 1).to(1, 1)));
```

Be aware that the references returned by a call to `children()` may be
invalidated when the number of spawned objects changes, and accessing the
invalidated objects may cause undefined behavior. Try not to save references to
spawned objects for too long, and use `children()` wherever possible to get the
updated list of spawned objects.

Commit message:

docs: add reference to motion canvas

packages/docs/docs/advanced/spawners.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_position: 6
slug: /spawners
---

# Spawners

*Note: These docs were adopted from the original [Motion Canvas](https://motioncanvas.io/docs/) docs*

Sometimes we want the children of a given node to be reactive. In other words,
we want them to change according to some external state. Consider the following
example:

```tsx
const count = createSignal(10);

view.add(
  <Layout layout>
    {range(count()).map(() => (
      <Circle size={32} fill={'white'} />
    ))}
  </Layout>,
);
```

We first create the `count` signal and then use its value to generate N number
of circles.

This example is not reactive - changing the `count` signal won't change the
number of circles inside the `Layout` node. We can fix that by using a function
that returns the children instead of writing them directly:

```tsx
const count = createSignal(10);

view.add(
  <Layout layout>
    {() => range(count()).map(() => <Circle size={32} fill={'white'} />)}
  </Layout>,
);
```

Throughout this guide, we will refer to functions that return children as
**spawners**. Like any other signal, this function will keep track of its
dependencies and recompute its value whenever they change. We can animate our
`count` signal to see if it works:

```tsx editor
import {makeScene2D, Layout, Circle} from '@revideo/2d';
import {createSignal, linear, range} from '@revideo/core';

export default makeScene2D(function* (view) {
  const count = createSignal(10);

  view.add(
    <Layout layout>
      {() => range(count()).map(() => <Circle size={32} fill={'white'} />)}
    </Layout>,
  );

  yield* count(3, 2, linear).wait(1).back(2);
});
```

It's important to remember that creating new nodes comes with some overhead. If
our spawner happens to generate a large number of nodes and its dependencies
change every frame, it may drastically reduce the playback's performance. To
counteract this, we can use an object pool that will let us reuse the same nodes
instead of recreating them each time:

```tsx
const count = createSignal(10);

const pool = range(64).map(i => (
  <Circle x={i * 32} width={32} height={32} fill={'lightseagreen'} />
));

const layout = createRef<Layout>();
view.add(
  <Layout layout ref={layout}>
    {() => pool.slice(0, count())}
  </Layout>,
);
```

Apart from the spawner function, the pool should never be accessed directly. Use
the helper methods on the parent object to get references to the spawned
children:

```tsx
// ... continuing from above ...
let spawnedCircles = layout().childrenAs<Circle>();
yield * all(...spawnedCircles.map(circle => circle.scale(1.5, 1).to(1, 1)));
```

Be aware that the references returned by a call to `children()` may be
invalidated when the number of spawned objects changes, and accessing the
invalidated objects may cause undefined behavior. Try not to save references to
spawned objects for too long, and use `children()` wherever possible to get the
updated list of spawned objects.
