packages/docs/docs/api-reference/renderer/renderPartialVideo.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_position: 2
slug: /renderer/renderPartialVideo
---

# renderPartialVideo()

The `renderPartialVideo()` function lets you render partial videos if you want
to distribute the rendering workload across multiple workers. You can find an
example of this in our
[Cloud Functions example](https://github.com/redotvideo/examples/tree/main/google-cloud-run-parallelized).
To use `renderPartialVideo()`, you don't have to manually assign a range of
frames or timestamps to render. Instead, you just pass the worker id and the
total number of workers your rendering job uses, and the function will figure
out the frames to render by itself.

Since merging partial videos gives you audio issues (audio becomes laggy), this
function returns the path to the audio file and mute video file of the partial
video. Afterwards, you should first concatenate all of the partial audio files
and then concatenate all of the partial mute video files, and then merge the
full audio and video to obtain your final mp4 file.

To do this, you can use the `concatenateMedia()`
([docs](/ffmpeg/concatenateMedia)) and `mergeAudioWithVideo()`
([docs](/ffmpeg/mergeAudioWithVideo)) functions from `@revideo/ffmpeg`.

## Example Usage

```tsx
import {renderPartialVideo} from '@revideo/renderer';

const {audioFile, videoFile} = renderPartialVideo({
  projectFile: './src/project.ts',
  variables: {color: 'white'},
  numWorkers: 10,
  workerId: 3,
  settings: {
    dimensions: [1080, 1792],
    logProgress: true,
    fmpeg: {
      ffmpegLogLevel: 'error',
      ffmpegPath: 'ffmpeg',
    },
    puppeteer: {
      args: ['--no-sandbox'],
    },
  },
});
```

## Arguments

An object of type `RenderPartialVideoProps` with the following attributes:

### projectFile:

_string_

A string pointing towards your Vite config file. This will probably be
`./src/project.ts`.

### workerId

_number_

The id of the worker. We start counting at 0, so if you have 5 workers, values
from 0 to 4 are accepted.

### numWorkers

_number_

The number of workers you use in total. This informs the function which range of
the video to render. For instance, worker 0 out of 10 workers would render 1/10
of the full video, whereas worker 0 out of 2 would render half of the video.

### variables?

_Record<string, any>_

Parameters / or variables passed to your video. See [here](/parameterized-video)
learn more about parameterized videos.

### settings?

A `Omit<RenderSettings, 'workers' | 'outFile' | 'outDir' | 'range'>` object with
the following properties:

#### dimensions?

_[number, number]_

Dimensions of the video to render as [x,y]. Uses the value specified in
`project.meta` by default.

#### logProgress?

_boolean_

Logs render progress to the console if set to `true`.

#### ffmpeg?

FFmpeg options - is an instance of `FfmpegSettings`. These overwrite the
following settings set through environment variables:

##### ffmpegLogLevel?

_`error` | `warning` | `info` | `verbose`, `debug` | `trace`_

The log level of FFmpeg. Can be one of `error`, `warning`, `info`, `verbose`,
`debug`, `trace`. Default is `error`.

##### ffmpegPath?

The path to the FFmpeg binary. If not specified, the FFmpeg binary shipped with
Revideo will be used.

#### puppeteer?

_BrowserLaunchArgumentOptions_

Launch options for puppeteer - is an instance of puppeteer's
[BrowserLaunchArgumentOptions](https://pptr.dev/api/puppeteer.browserlaunchargumentoptions/)

#### viteBasePort?

_number_

The "base port" we use for the vite server. When you have three workers and a
base port 5000, the vite servers created by the three workers will use port
5000, 5001, and 5002. Default is 9000.

#### viteServerOptions?

_ServerOptions_

Options for the vite server used for rendering. Is an instance of vite's
[ServerOptions](https://vitejs.dev/config/server-options).

#### progressCallback?

_(worker: number, progress: number) => void_

A function that gets called with the progress of the rendering process, can be
used to report progress back to users (e.g. in a web app). The function gets
called with two arguments: the id of the worker that is calling the function,
and the progress of the rendering process (float between 0 and 1). Does nothing
by default

## Return Value

_{ audioFile: string, videoFile: string }_

Paths to the audio and video files of the partial render.

Commit message:

chore: dont omit required settings, add vite cache dir as render option

packages/docs/docs/api-reference/renderer/renderPartialVideo.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_position: 2
slug: /renderer/renderPartialVideo
---

# renderPartialVideo()

The `renderPartialVideo()` function lets you render partial videos if you want
to distribute the rendering workload across multiple workers. You can find an
example of this in our
[Cloud Functions example](https://github.com/redotvideo/examples/tree/main/google-cloud-run-parallelized).
To use `renderPartialVideo()`, you don't have to manually assign a range of
frames or timestamps to render. Instead, you just pass the worker id and the
total number of workers your rendering job uses, and the function will figure
out the frames to render by itself.

Since merging partial videos gives you audio issues (audio becomes laggy), this
function returns the path to the audio file and mute video file of the partial
video. Afterwards, you should first concatenate all of the partial audio files
and then concatenate all of the partial mute video files, and then merge the
full audio and video to obtain your final mp4 file.

To do this, you can use the `concatenateMedia()`
([docs](/ffmpeg/concatenateMedia)) and `mergeAudioWithVideo()`
([docs](/ffmpeg/mergeAudioWithVideo)) functions from `@revideo/ffmpeg`.

## Example Usage

```tsx
import {renderPartialVideo} from '@revideo/renderer';

const {audioFile, videoFile} = renderPartialVideo({
  projectFile: './src/project.ts',
  variables: {color: 'white'},
  numWorkers: 10,
  workerId: 3,
  settings: {
    dimensions: [1080, 1792],
    logProgress: true,
    fmpeg: {
      ffmpegLogLevel: 'error',
      ffmpegPath: 'ffmpeg',
    },
    puppeteer: {
      args: ['--no-sandbox'],
    },
  },
});
```

## Arguments

An object of type `RenderPartialVideoProps` with the following attributes:

### projectFile:

_string_

A string pointing towards your Vite config file. This will probably be
`./src/project.ts`.

### workerId

_number_

The id of the worker. We start counting at 0, so if you have 5 workers, values
from 0 to 4 are accepted.

### numWorkers

_number_

The number of workers you use in total. This informs the function which range of
the video to render. For instance, worker 0 out of 10 workers would render 1/10
of the full video, whereas worker 0 out of 2 would render half of the video.

### variables?

_Record<string, any>_

Parameters / or variables passed to your video. See [here](/parameterized-video)
learn more about parameterized videos.

### settings?

A `Omit<RenderSettings, 'workers'>` object with
the following properties:

#### outFile?

_string, has to end with '.mp4'_

The file name of the video output

#### outDir?

_string_

The output directory of the rendered video. `default="./output"`

#### range?

_[number, number]_

The start and end second of the video. Can be used to only render a part of the
video.

#### dimensions?

_[number, number]_

Dimensions of the video to render as [x,y]. Uses the value specified in
`project.meta` by default.

#### logProgress?

_boolean_

Logs render progress to the console if set to `true`.

#### ffmpeg?

FFmpeg options - is an instance of `FfmpegSettings`. These overwrite the
following settings set through environment variables:

##### ffmpegLogLevel?

_`error` | `warning` | `info` | `verbose`, `debug` | `trace`_

The log level of FFmpeg. Can be one of `error`, `warning`, `info`, `verbose`,
`debug`, `trace`. Default is `error`.

##### ffmpegPath?

The path to the FFmpeg binary. If not specified, the FFmpeg binary shipped with
Revideo will be used.

#### puppeteer?

_BrowserLaunchArgumentOptions_

Launch options for puppeteer - is an instance of puppeteer's
[BrowserLaunchArgumentOptions](https://pptr.dev/api/puppeteer.browserlaunchargumentoptions/)

#### viteBasePort?

_number_

The "base port" we use for the vite server. When you have three workers and a
base port 5000, the vite servers created by the three workers will use port
5000, 5001, and 5002. Default is 9000.

#### viteServerOptions?

_ServerOptions_

Options for the vite server used for rendering. Is an instance of vite's
[ServerOptions](https://vitejs.dev/config/server-options).

#### progressCallback?

_(worker: number, progress: number) => void_

A function that gets called with the progress of the rendering process, can be
used to report progress back to users (e.g. in a web app). The function gets
called with two arguments: the id of the worker that is calling the function,
and the progress of the rendering process (float between 0 and 1). Does nothing
by default

## Return Value

_{ audioFile: string, videoFile: string }_

Paths to the audio and video files of the partial render.
