packages/docs/docs/api-reference/renderer/renderVideo.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_position: 1
slug: /api/renderer/renderVideo
---

# renderVideo()

The `renderVideo` function lets you render (parameterized) videos in a nodejs
process. It uses a headless browser to achieve this.

## Example Usage

```tsx
import {renderVideo} from '@revideo/renderer';

function logProgressToConsole(id: number, progress: number) {
  console.log(`[${id}] Progress: ${(progress * 100).toFixed(1)}%`);
}

renderVideo('./vite.config.ts', {color: 'white'}, printProgress, {
  name: 'out',
  workers: 1,
  range: [1, 3],
  dimensions: [1080, 1792],
  logProgress: true,
  fmpeg: {
    ffmpegLogLevel: 'error',
    ffmpegPath: 'ffmpeg',
  },
  puppeteer: {
    args: ['--no-sandbox'],
  },
});
```

## Arguments

### configFile

`string`

Points towards your Vite config file. This will almost always be
`vite.config.ts`.

### params (optional)

`Record<string, any>`

Parameters / or variables passed to your video. See [here](/parameterized-video)
learn more about parameterized videos. `default = {}`

### progressCallback (optional)

`(workerId: number, progress: number) => void`:

A function that gets called with the progress of the rendering process. The
function gets called with two arguments: the id of the worker that is calling
the function, and the progress of the rendering process (float between 0 and 1).
`default = () => {}`

### settings (optional)

An object with the following arguments:

#### name (optional)

The file name of the video output - the video will be saved to `{name}.mp4`.
`default = "project"`

#### workers (optional)

The number of processes you want to use to parallelize rendering - for example,
rendering a 100s long video with 10 workers means that 10 processes handle 10s
of video each. Your laptop will probably render fastest with one worker, but VMs
with a lot of computing power can benefit from using more than one - ideally,
you should experiment what number gives you the best speedup. `default = 1`.

#### range (optional)

The start and end second of the video. Can be used to only render a part of the
video. `default = [0, Infinity]`

#### dimensions (optional)

Dimensions of the video to render as [x,y]. Default: uses the value specified in
project.meta.

#### logProgress (optional)

Logs render progress to the console if set to `true`

#### ffmpeg (optional)

FFmpeg options - is an instance of FFmpegOptions. These overwrite settings set
through environment variables.

##### ffmpegLogLevel (optional)

The log level of FFmpeg. Can be one of `error`, `warning`, `info`, `verbose`,
`debug`, `trace`. `default = "error"`

##### ffmpegPath (optional)

The path to the FFmpeg binary. If not specified, the FFmpeg binary shipped with
Revideo will be used.

#### puppeteer (optional)

Launch options for puppeteer - is an instance of puppeteer's
[BrowserLaunchArgumentOptions](https://pptr.dev/api/puppeteer.browserlaunchargumentoptions/)

Commit message:

refactor: make renderVideo point to project file instead of vite config

packages/docs/docs/api-reference/renderer/renderVideo.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_position: 1
slug: /api/renderer/renderVideo
---

# renderVideo()

The `renderVideo` function lets you render (parameterized) videos in a nodejs
process. It uses a headless browser to achieve this.

## Example Usage

```tsx
import {renderVideo} from '@revideo/renderer';

function logProgressToConsole(id: number, progress: number) {
  console.log(`[${id}] Progress: ${(progress * 100).toFixed(1)}%`);
}

renderVideo('./src/project.ts', {color: 'white'}, printProgress, {
  name: 'out',
  workers: 1,
  range: [1, 3],
  dimensions: [1080, 1792],
  logProgress: true,
  fmpeg: {
    ffmpegLogLevel: 'error',
    ffmpegPath: 'ffmpeg',
  },
  puppeteer: {
    args: ['--no-sandbox'],
  },
});
```

## Arguments

### configFile

`string`

Points towards your project file. This will probably be
`./src/project.ts`.

### params (optional)

`Record<string, any>`

Parameters / or variables passed to your video. See [here](/parameterized-video)
learn more about parameterized videos. `default = {}`

### progressCallback (optional)

`(workerId: number, progress: number) => void`:

A function that gets called with the progress of the rendering process. The
function gets called with two arguments: the id of the worker that is calling
the function, and the progress of the rendering process (float between 0 and 1).
`default = () => {}`

### settings (optional)

An object with the following arguments:

#### name (optional)

The file name of the video output - the video will be saved to `{name}.mp4`.
`default = "project"`

#### outDir (optional)

The output directory of the rendered video. `default="./output"`

#### workers (optional)

The number of processes you want to use to parallelize rendering - for example,
rendering a 100s long video with 10 workers means that 10 processes handle 10s
of video each. Your laptop will probably render fastest with one worker, but VMs
with a lot of computing power can benefit from using more than one - ideally,
you should experiment what number gives you the best speedup. `default = 1`.

#### range (optional)

The start and end second of the video. Can be used to only render a part of the
video. `default = [0, Infinity]`

#### dimensions (optional)

Dimensions of the video to render as [x,y]. Default: uses the value specified in
project.meta.

#### logProgress (optional)

Logs render progress to the console if set to `true`

#### ffmpeg (optional)

FFmpeg options - is an instance of FFmpegOptions. These overwrite settings set
through environment variables.

##### ffmpegLogLevel (optional)

The log level of FFmpeg. Can be one of `error`, `warning`, `info`, `verbose`,
`debug`, `trace`. `default = "error"`

##### ffmpegPath (optional)

The path to the FFmpeg binary. If not specified, the FFmpeg binary shipped with
Revideo will be used.

#### puppeteer (optional)

Launch options for puppeteer - is an instance of puppeteer's
[BrowserLaunchArgumentOptions](https://pptr.dev/api/puppeteer.browserlaunchargumentoptions/)
