---
sidebar_position: 1
slug: /api/renderer/renderVideo
---

# renderVideo()

The `renderVideo` function lets you render (parameterized) videos in a nodejs
process. It uses a headless browser to achieve this.

## Example Usage

```tsx
import {renderVideo} from '@revideo/renderer';

function logProgressToConsole(id: number, progress: number) {
  console.log(`[${id}] Progress: ${(progress * 100).toFixed(1)}%`);
}

renderVideo({
  projectFile: './src/project.ts',
  variables: {color: 'white'},
  settings: {
    outFile: 'video.mp4',
    workers: 1,
    range: [1, 3],
    dimensions: [1080, 1792],
    logProgress: true,
    ffmpeg: {
      ffmpegLogLevel: 'error',
      ffmpegPath: 'ffmpeg',
    },
    puppeteer: {
      args: ['--no-sandbox'],
    }
    progressCallback: logProgressToConsole
  }
});
```

## Arguments

The input arguments are a `RenderVideoProps` object, which has the following
properties:

### projectFile

_string_

Points towards your project file. This will probably be `./src/project.ts`.

### variables?

_Record<string, any>_

Parameters / or variables passed to your video. See [here](/parameterized-video)
learn more about parameterized videos.

### settings?

A `RenderSettings` object with the following properties:

#### outFile?

_string, has to end with '.mp4'_

The file name of the video output

#### outDir?

_string_

The output directory of the rendered video. `default="./output"`

#### range?

_[number, number]_

The start and end second of the video. Can be used to only render a part of the
video.

#### workers?

_number_

The number of processes you want to use to parallelize rendering, default is 1.
Rendering a 100s long video with 10 workers means that 10 processes handle 10s
of video each. Your laptop will probably render fastest with one worker, but VMs
with a lot of computing power can benefit from using more than one

#### dimensions?

_[number, number]_

Dimensions of the video to render as [x,y]. Uses the value specified in
`project.meta` by default.

#### logProgress?

_boolean_

Logs render progress to the console if set to `true`.

#### ffmpeg?

FFmpeg options - is an instance of `FfmpegSettings`. These overwrite the
following settings set through environment variables:

##### ffmpegLogLevel?

_`error` | `warning` | `info` | `verbose`, `debug` | `trace`_

The log level of FFmpeg. Can be one of `error`, `warning`, `info`, `verbose`,
`debug`, `trace`. Default is `error`.

##### ffmpegPath?

The path to the FFmpeg binary. If not specified, the FFmpeg binary shipped with
Revideo will be used.

#### puppeteer?

_BrowserLaunchArgumentOptions_

Launch options for puppeteer - is an instance of puppeteer's
[BrowserLaunchArgumentOptions](https://pptr.dev/api/puppeteer.browserlaunchargumentoptions/)

#### viteBasePort?

_number_

The "base port" we use for the vite server. When you have three workers and a
base port 5000, the vite servers created by the three workers will use port
5000, 5001, and 5002. Default is 9000.

#### viteConfig?

_InlineConfig_

Configuration of the vite server used for rendering, an instance of
[InlineConfig](https://vitejs.dev/guide/api-javascript#inlineconfig). You can
use these options to configure the server port, the cache directory, and more.

#### progressCallback?

_(worker: number, progress: number) => void_

A function that gets called with the progress of the rendering process, can be
used to report progress back to users (e.g. in a web app). The function gets
called with two arguments: the id of the worker that is calling the function,
and the progress of the rendering process (float between 0 and 1). Does nothing
by default

## Return Value

The function returns a string containing the path to the rendered video.
